So it looks like it's a lot more
probable that the model for
I generated this data.
>> Yep.
The main difference between the values
for the models producing this
observation sequence has to
do with the middle state.
Remember that we used delta y even
though it is a relatively bad
feature for distinguishing I from we.
The output probability Gaussian for
the middle state of both models
have a mean value of zero.
However, with I, the expected
probability of getting an actual zero at
the middle state is much higher
than with we, a 0.9 versus a 0.7.
>> Also with the gesture I,
we spend much less time in
the middle state than with We.
The transition probabilities for the
middle states reflect this difference.
With I, our transition from the middle
state to the last state is 0.5 but
with We it was 0.3.
This example shows how well HMMs can
distinguish between two gestures,
even with relatively poor features.
>> What is great about HMMs,
is that the difference in values for
even relatively weak features,
accumulates through time.
The longer the gesture is,
the easier it is to recognize.
Perhaps we can experiment
with that idea in a quiz.